a lot of work is invested in one of
these holes and if one seems vacant
another was will try to claim it once
the Burrow is finished
the female performs an elaborate dance
around it familiarizing herself with its
surroundings so that she knows exactly
where it is and then she conceals it so
that none but she is likely to find it
her nursery must now be provisioned and
for that she needs fresh meat a
caterpillar first she paralyzes it with
her sting thanks to her dance she knows
exactly where her hidden hole lies each
burrow will have several caterpillars in
it and each addition requires the same
stopping and unstopping of the tunnel
entrance the urge to collect
caterpillars is so strong that they'll
pick them up wherever they find them
watch this
she has already laid a long yellow egg
on the first caterpillar when the tunnel
is full she seals it with special care
she uses a grain of gravel like a
pneumatic Ram by breaking it by buzzing
her wing muscles one of the few
instances of an insect using a tool in a
few days time when the egg hatches the
grub will find fresh meat awaiting it
these cabbage white caterpillars are
also doomed another species of wasp
injects them not with paralyzing poison
but with eggs
day after day the caterpillars grow and
mature apparently unaffected but inside
them the wasp eggs are developing
[Applause]
[Music]
having fed so richly on the entrails of
their caterpillar hosts the wasp grubs
are ready to pupate as soon as they
emerge and they start straightaway to
spin their silken cocoons ten days later
they have become adult wasps and are
themselves starting to search for
caterpillars
you